SDK Make globals configurable (#19606)
directus/directus: docs/guides/sdk/getting-started.md

:::

## Global APIs

To keep the SDK dependency free it does rely on the API's mentioned below which originally came from the browser
ecosystem and may not be available in all environments.

#### The `fetch` API

> There are various reasons why you would want to overwrite or set fetch if not available. For example, NodeJS versions 16
> and below do not yet ship `fetch`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are various reasons why you would want to overwrite or set `fetch` if it's not available. For example, Node.js
version 16 and below do not yet ship `fetch`.
```

> There are various reasons why you would want to overwrite or set fetch if not available. The most common being it not
> being shipped with the runtime yet (like NodeJS version 16 or lower) or wrappers around the fetch function for

Reviewer 2: Maybe:

```suggestion
There are various reasons why you would want to overwrite or set fetch if not available. The most common case is it not
being shipped with the runtime yet (like NodeJS version 16 or lower) or wrapping the fetch function for
```

- [`node-fetch`](https://github.com/node-fetch/node-fetch)
- [`ofetch`](https://github.com/unjs/ofetch)
- [`whatwg-fetch`](https://github.com/JakeChampion/fetch)

#### The `URL` API

This API is shipped in almost every runtime, but for example `react-native` does require a polyfill for the SDK to work.

- [`url-polyfill`](https://github.com/lifaon74/url-polyfill)
- [`react-native-url-polyfill`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-url-polyfill)

#### The `WebSocket` API

This API is optional if you're not making use of the `realtime()` features in the SDK. Backend JavaScript environments
often do not ship with an implementation of WebSockets.

- [`ws`](https://github.com/websockets/ws)
- [`isomorphic-ws`](https://github.com/heineiuo/isomorphic-ws)

### Polyfilling

These can be overwritten in two ways:

> 1. Via options parameter of the `createDirectus` function.

Reviewer: Oh, should we mention that this takes precedence?

Author: Sure that makes sense

:::

## Global APIs

To keep the SDK dependency-free, it does rely on the APIs mentioned below, which originally came from the browser
ecosystem and may not be available in all environments.

#### The `fetch` API

> There are various reasons why you would want to overwrite or set `fetch` if it's not available. For example, Node.js
> version 16 and below do not yet ship `fetch`.

Reviewer: Node.js >= 18 is required for the SDK anyway, therefore adjusting this sentence:
```suggestion
This API is shipped with almost every modern runtime. Nevertheless, there might be reasons to overwrite or set the
implementation, for example, if an alternative implementation is preferred or if you actually work with a special
runtime where `fetch` is not available.
```

- [`node-fetch`](https://github.com/node-fetch/node-fetch)
- [`ofetch`](https://github.com/unjs/ofetch)
- [`whatwg-fetch`](https://github.com/JakeChampion/fetch)

#### The `URL` API

> This API is shipped in almost every runtime, but for example `react-native` does require a polyfill for the SDK to work.

Author: perfect 😄

:::

## Global APIs

To keep the SDK dependency-free, it does rely on the APIs mentioned below, which originally came from the browser
ecosystem and may not be available in all environments.

#### The `fetch` API

This API is shipped with almost every modern runtime. Nevertheless, there might be reasons to overwrite or set the
implementation, for example, if an alternative implementation is preferred or if you actually work with a special
runtime where `fetch` is not available.

- [`node-fetch`](https://github.com/node-fetch/node-fetch)
- [`ofetch`](https://github.com/unjs/ofetch)
- [`whatwg-fetch`](https://github.com/JakeChampion/fetch)

#### The `URL` API

This API is shipped with almost every modern runtime. However, there are exceptions, like `react-native`, that require a
polyfill for the SDK to work.

- [`url-polyfill`](https://github.com/lifaon74/url-polyfill)

> - [`react-native-url-polyfill`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-native-url-polyfill)

Reviewer: > this is truly the most pedantic question of the day

🥳 I like it 🤣

Seriously, good question! IMO we should go with npmjs links, as the name of a package cannot change, the GitHub repo (and thus the link), however, can change at any time.

(See https://github.com/directus/directus/pull/19452 for a related case)
